Processor executes sequence of instructions from start-up to shutdown.The transition from one to the next, is called control transfer. The sequence of transfers is called control flow
.One instruction at a time

To alter the control flow:

1)Conditional & unconditional branches(jumps  and branches)
2)Calls & returns

Mechanisms for exceptional control flow exists at all levels of a computer system.
A)Low level Mechanism
1)exceptions
2)change in control flow in response to a system event (i.e.,change in system state)
3)Combination of hardware and OS software


B) Higher Level Mechanisms
1. Process context switch
2. Signals
3. Nonlocal jumps (setjmp/longjmp)


Exceptions
A transfer of control to the OS in response to some event (i.e., a change in processor state)

ex: divide by zero, arithmetic overflows

A)Asynchronous (not caused by an instruction)
1)Interrupt
• Signal from an I/O device (i.e. network packet)
• Always return to the next instruction

B)Synchronous (caused by an instruction)
1) Trap
• Intentional exception (i.e. system call)
• Always return to the next instruction
2) Fault
• Potentially recoverable error (i.e. page fault)
• Might return to the current instruction (if problem is fixed) to allow it to re-execute
3)Abort
• Non-recoverable error (i.e. machine check error)
• Terminates the application

System Calls:

read: file reading
fork: create a new process
execve: loading a new program
exit: terminating the current process


Processes

A process is an instance of a program in execution. This means it includes:

the code in memory,
the data in memory,
the stack of the program
the general-purpose registers
the program counters
environmnet variables
the set of open file descriptors

Concurrent Processes
Two processes run concurrently (are concurrent) if their flows overlap in time.Otherwise, they are sequential


Logical Control Flow
Processes must share the processor with other processes as well as the OS
.Logical control flow is the illusion that each process has exclusive use of the processor
